Hi.
We didn't this lecture we're going to see how we can add a function inside of our class.
And also we're going to learn a really important object oriented programming concept called inheritance.
So adding a function is fairly easy.
So I'm going to show that in a quick way.
But before we do that I'm going to create another Swift file because we are going to have two classes
right now.
The new class is called Super musician.
OK.
So this is kind of a superior musician compared to a regular musician class.
So we're going to take all of this information and we're going to use them in our superior musician
class.
But right now I want to add a new function before we do that.
So adding a function is fairly easy as I said before you just come into the class and you just say funk
sync for example.
So this is not different than creating any function inside of a class.
So we have done this a lot in WI controllers right.
So for example if I make Kirk or James sing they will sing.
Nothing else matters.
So let me come over here and if I say James that's Sing it will sing then nothing else matters.
Right.
So let me run this and as you can see now we get this print out over here.
So what happens if I want to use this function if I want to use all these properties inside my super
musician I can copy and paste everything you know.
And this will be OK but it's not very efficient.
What if I want to change something in musician class.
What if I'm not allowed to change anything in the musician's class.
Suppose that we are working for a big company.
So it's not actually fair or it's not actually a good idea to copy and paste everything rather than
that I'm going to inherit this class.
OK.
So I can reach those values reach those methods and functions and attributes.
Can we do that.
Yes of course we can do that because this is objective oriented programming right.
Right now I don't even have a class in this superior musician so I'm going to call the super musician.
And before we go into the class I'm going to come over here and say column and musicians.
So which means that disparate musician will inherit something from the musicians.
It will get X has the properties and the functions of the musicians class.
So this is super cool.
OK.
This is one of the greatest features of object oriented programming.
We can now create a super musician object without doing anything actually.
So let me create Kirk as a super musician.
OK so he doesn't see the supreme musician let me do comment B.
Okay.
And then let's go here and create Kirk so super musician as you can see if I open parentheses it will
ask me for these parameters one more time.
So how does it work.
We didn't even write these parameters inside of our super musician class.
We don't have anything in here but since I'm inheriting four from musicians I can't use all of these
properties I can come over here and I can just say this is going to be Kirk and The Age will be 55 instrument
guitar again and type is going to be the lead guitar.
So here you go I have created Kirk.
It's not a musician it's a super musician but I can even make him sing.
So let me delete all of these values in James so we can actually see what is Kurt singing.
So as you can see it says nothing else matters even though I don't have that function in my class it
still works because I'm leveraging inheritance so we can do other things as well.
We can add some more features to super musician.
We can create a sync to function for example and we can just say another thing in here like enter settlement
or enter night.
OK so can I come over here let me do a comment B so it will get synchronized.
Can I come over here and say Kirk that sink too.
Of course I can because Kirk is a superb musician and he can sink.
He can even sink to.
But can I come over here as a James Scott sink.
Yes I can because sink is in the musician's about as you can see we cannot say James that sink to because
sink too belongs to the super musician class so super musician can do everything a musician can do but
also he can seems to write he can do some extra feature extra stuff so I can have another function in
here I can have another attributes and not there functionalities as well but we won't have them in musicians.
So that's to be the of it.
So for example let me show you what the override is.
So if I say override funk sync it means that sync is already defined for me but I'm going to change
it.
I'm going to override it if I write funk sync it will give me an error because this is already defined
in the musicians class and I'm inheriting from it.
So it says that you have to override this.
So OK I want to override this function so I'm going to first call the original sync function and you
can't just say super so super refers to inherited class.
So if you say super it refers to musicians class.
In this case as you can see super is a musician's class.
So I can't reach musicians with the key word super in this inheriting class so I can just say super
dots sync.
For example I am just calling this Super dot sync function as usual.
So this will just print me nothing else matters but also I can add some new lines to nothing else matters
right.
I can just say exit light for example.
So this will give me the nothing else matters and it will give me exit light as well.
So let me go to church and delete the scene too or comment this out and I will only print out Kirk that
sink.
And as you can see it printed out nothing else matters and printed out exit light because I how called
super dots sync.
So if I just do this with James that sync you will only see nothing else matters because James cannot
sink the other line because James is a musician but Kirk is a super musician so that's inheritance.
That's one of the most important aspects of object oriented programming and you can easily use this
in your own codes as well.
It is so easy to use and it is so convenient.
So let's stop here and within the next lecture we're going to learn about a new concept called excess
levels.